Remove things on NEW/RETIRE_CID that have been normatively specified … (#361)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

is to not send a PATH_RESPONSE in response to the peer's PATH_CHALLENGE.

### Allocating, Consuming, and Retiring Connection IDs {#consume-retire-cid}

With the multipath extension, each connection ID is associated with one path
that is identified by the Path ID that is specified in the Path Identifier field of
the MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame {{mp-new-conn-id-frame}}.
The Path ID 0 indicates the initial path of the connection.
Respectively, the connection IDs used during the handshake belong to the initial path
with Path ID 0.
The MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame is used to issue new connection IDs for all paths.
In order to let the peer open new paths, it is RECOMMENDED to proactively
issue a Connection ID for at least one unused path ID, as long as it remains
compatible with the peer's Maximum Path ID limit.

> 

Reviewer: Yes. Further discussion could be done on issue #338.

Each endpoint maintains the set of connection IDs received from its peer for each path,
any of which it can use when sending packets on that path; see also {{Section 5.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
Usually, it is desired to provide at least one additional connection ID for
all used paths, to allow for migration.

{{Section 5.1.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} specifies the retirement of connection IDs.
In order to identify a connection ID correctly when the multipath extension is used,
endpoints have to use the MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame instead
of the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame to indicate the respective Path ID together with the

> connection ID sequence number, at least for all paths with a Path ID other than 0.

Author: ```suggestion
connection ID sequence number, at least for all paths with a Path ID other than 0.
As endpoints can also use MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID and MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID for the initial path with Path ID 0, however, the use of NEW_CONNECTION_ID and RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID is still valid as well and endpoints need to process these frames accordingly belong to Path ID 0. 
```

In order to let the peer open new paths, it is RECOMMENDED to proactively
issue a Connection ID for at least one unused path ID, as long as it remains
compatible with the peer's Maximum Path ID limit.

Each endpoint maintains the set of connection IDs received from its peer for each path,
any of which it can use when sending packets on that path; see also {{Section 5.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
Usually, it is desired to provide at least one additional connection ID for
all used paths, to allow for migration.

{{Section 5.1.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} specifies the retirement of connection IDs.
In order to identify a connection ID correctly when the multipath extension is used,
endpoints have to use the MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame instead
of the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame to indicate the respective Path ID together with the
connection ID sequence number, at least for all paths with a Path ID other than 0.
Endpoints can also use MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID and
MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID for the initial path with Path ID 0,
however, the use of NEW_CONNECTION_ID and RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID
is still valid as well and endpoints need to process these frames accordingly

> as corresponding to Path ID 0. 

Author: ```suggestion
as corresponding to Path ID 0.
```

is to not send a PATH_RESPONSE in response to the peer's PATH_CHALLENGE.

### Allocating, Consuming, and Retiring Connection IDs {#consume-retire-cid}

With the multipath extension, each connection ID is associated with one path

> that is identified by the Path ID as specified in the Path Identifier field of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that is identified by the Path ID specified in the Path Identifier field of
```

the MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame {{mp-new-conn-id-frame}}.
The Path ID 0 indicates the initial path of the connection.
Respectively, the connection IDs used during the handshake belong to the initial path

> with Path ID 0. 

Author: ```suggestion
with Path ID 0.
```

The MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame is used to issue new connection IDs for all paths.
Endpoints SHOULD issue at least one connection ID for an unused path identifier
to allow new paths to be opened.

Each endpoint maintains the set of connection IDs received from its peer for each path,
any of which it can use when sending packets on that path; see also {{Section 5.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.

> Usually, it is desired to provide at least one additional connection ID for
> for all used paths, to allow for migration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Usually, it is desired to provide at least one additional connection ID for
all used paths, to allow for migration.
```

{{Section 5.1.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} specifies the retirement of connection IDs.

> In order to identify a connection ID correctly when the mulitpath extension is used,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to identify a connection ID correctly when the multipath extension is used,
```

endpoints have to use the MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame instead
of the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame to indicate the respective Path ID together with the

> connection ID sequence number, at least for all paths with a Path ID other than 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connection ID sequence number, at least for all paths with a Path ID other than 0.
To keep compatible with RFC9000, endpoints MUST treat RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame as 
used for initial Path (with Path ID 0), and it doesn't cause extra error.
```

Author: We don't need to use normative language here because this specification does not invalidate any RFC9000 frames. Therefore NEW/RETIRE_CID frames must be processed. The only thing we need to say is that the path ID for these CIDs is 0. That also doesn't need normative language either because that just a fact that is needed to be specified to implement this extension but not something for the endpoints to act on in a specific way.

If the client has used all the allocated connection IDs for a path, it is supposed to retire
those that are not used anymore, and the server is supposed to provide
replacements for that path, see {{Section 5.1.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
Sending a MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame indicates that the connection ID
will not be used anymore. If the path is still active, the peer SHOULD replace
it with a new connection ID using a MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame.

> Endpoints MUST NOT issue new connection IDs which have Path IDs larger than

Author: This paragraph is revised in PR #354 instead

is to not send a PATH_RESPONSE in response to the peer's PATH_CHALLENGE.

### Allocating, Consuming, and Retiring Connection IDs {#consume-retire-cid}

With the multipath extension, each connection ID is associated with one path

> that is identified by the Path ID specified in the Path Identifier field of

Author: ```suggestion
that is identified by the Path ID that is specified in the Path Identifier field of
```

to allow new paths to be opened.

Each endpoint maintains the set of connection IDs received from its peer for each path,
any of which it can use when sending packets on that path; see also {{Section 5.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
Usually, it is desired to provide at least one additional connection ID for
for all used paths, to allow for migration.

{{Section 5.1.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} specifies the retirement of connection IDs.
In order to identify a connection ID correctly when the mulitpath extension is used,
endpoints have to use the MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame instead
of the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame to indicate the respective Path ID together with the
connection ID sequence number, at least for all paths with a Path ID other than 0.

If the client has used all the allocated connection IDs for a path, it is supposed to retire
those that are not used anymore, and the server is supposed to provide
replacements for that path, see {{Section 5.1.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
Sending a MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame indicates that the connection ID
will not be used anymore. If the path is still active, the peer SHOULD replace
it with a new connection ID using a MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame.

> Endpoints MUST NOT issue new connection IDs with Path IDs larger than

Author: ```suggestion
Endpoints MUST NOT issue new connection IDs which have Path IDs larger than
```

## ACK_MP Frame {#ack-mp-frame}

The ACK_MP frame (types TBD-00 and TBD-01)
is an extension of the ACK frame specified in {{Section 19.3 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}. It is

> used to acknowledge packets that were sent on different paths using

Author: ```suggestion
used to acknowledge packets that were sent on different paths, as
```

> each an own packet number space. If the frame type is TBD-01, ACK_MP frames

Reviewer 3: I cannot create a suggestion because of the deleted line, but I would suggest instead

"used to acknowledge packets that were sent on different paths, as each
path has its own packet number space. If the frame type [...]"

> each an own packet number space. If the frame type is TBD-01, ACK_MP frames

Author: ```suggestion
each path as its own packet number space. If the frame type is TBD-01, ACK_MP frames
```

~~~
{: #fig-mp-connection-id-frame-format title="MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID Frame Format"}

Compared to the NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame specified in
{{Section 19.15 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, the following
field is added:

Path Identifier:

> : The Path ID assocaited with the connection ID. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: The Path ID associated with the connection ID. This
```

  means the provided connection ID can only be used on the corresponding path.

Note that, other than for the NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame of {{Section 19.15 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}},

> the sequence number is set dependently for each path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the sequence number applies on a per-path context.
```

This means different connection IDs on different paths may have the same
sequence number value. Respectively, the Retire Prior To field indicates which connection IDs
should be retired for the path with the Path ID in the Path Identifier field.

Note that the NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame can only be used to issue or retire
connection IDs for the initial path with Path ID 0.

## MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frames {#mp-retire-conn-id-frame}

The MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame (type=0x15228c0a)
is an extension of the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame specified in
{{Section 19.16 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}. It is used
to indicate that it will no longer use a connection ID for a specific path
that was issued by its peer. To retire the connection ID used
during the handshake on the initial path Path ID 0 is used.
Sending a MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame also serves as a request to the peer

> to send additional connection IDs for this pth for future use (see also {{Section 5.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to send additional connection IDs for this path (see also {{Section 5.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}},
```

~~~
{: #fig-mp-retire-connection-id-frame-format title="MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID Frame Format"}

Compared to the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame specified in
{{Section 19.16 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, the following
field is added:

Path Identifier:
: The Path ID associated with the connection ID to retire.

Note that the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame can only be used to retire

> connection IDs for the initial path with Path ID 0.

Author: ```suggestion
connection IDs for the initial path with Path ID 0.

As the MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frames applies the sequence number per path,
the sequence number in the MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame
also need to be consider in the context of the the Path Identifier field.
```

~~~
{: #fig-mp-retire-connection-id-frame-format title="MP_RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID Frame Format"}

Compared to the RETIRE_CONNECTION_ID frame specified in
{{Section 19.16 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, the following
field is added:

Path Identifier:
: The Path ID associated with the connection ID to retire.

> 

Reviewer 2: Note that the Sequence Number also has different meaning here. It's defined for per path.

Reviewer 2: That do matters. When people are implementing the MP_CID_RETIRE frame, they could get all the important changes within this section, don't necessarily need to jump to the MP_NEW_CID frame definition section.

Author: But it's not a change. you look up the Path ID then you find the sequence number and remove the CID. So the only change is that you have to look up the Path ID first, which is described. That the sequence number is path-specific is only important when you select one in the NEW_CID frame.

Reviewer 3: I agree with Mirja here. However, we could probably add a sentence in the above paragraph making the link with the "sequence number on a per-path context", similarly to what was done with MP_NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame, to address Yanmei's concern.

Author: You can make a proposal but a sentence like that make less sense here as the sequence number is selected when the NEW_CID frame is set and here only used. So saying the sequence number is "applied" on a per-path basis doesn't really make sense. Maybe the sequence number has be applied on a per path basis when the NEW_CID was sent but that information is already in the other section and not really helpful here.
